---
title: '[EPITA] 5. Stable Spread'
author: HJ
date: 2023-07-17 17:50:00 +0900
categories: [데이터 사이언스, EPITA]
tags: [데이터 사이언스]
math: true
mermaid: true
---

## Links
<https://app.datascientist.fr/learn/learning/57/62/196/846>

## Stable Diffusion for Image Generation
- A text-to-image AI model. It is trained on millions of image and text description pairs found on the internet. Because it has seen so much, the model understands what text description associates with what images.
- You need to give it a prompt that describes an image

1. Generate images from text
2. Generate an image from another image
3. Photo Editing : Use inpainting to regenerate part of an AI or real image
4. Make videos : From a text prompt, From another video

## Diffusion Model
- A method of creating data that is similar to a set of training data. They train by destroying the training data through the addition of noise, and then learning to recover the data by reversing this noising process. Given an input image, the Diffusion Model will iteratively corrupt the image with Gaussian noise in a series of timesteps, ultimately leaving pure Gaussian noise
- The Diffusion Model will then work backwards, learning how to isolate and remove the noise at each timestep, undoing the destruction process that just occurred.
- Once trained, the model can then be "split in half", and we can start from randomly sampled Gaussian noise which we use the Diffusion model to gradually denoise in order to generate an image.

## Stable Diffusion
- Stable Diffusion works on the latent space of images rather than on the pixel space of images
- X : Input-Image -> Encoder P(Z|X) -> Z : Latent-Vector Generated from X -> Decoder P(X^|Z) -> X^ : Predicted-Image from Z
- Components
    + Text encoder : Text prompt -> Embedding vector
        * A pre-trained text encoder converts the text prompt into embeddings
        * A large pretrained transformer language model
        * Stable Diffusion uses the pre-trained text encoder part of CLIP for text encoding. It takes the caption as input and outputs a 77×768 dimensional token embedding.
        * 75 are text tokens from the caption, 1 for the start token, and 1 other for the end token
        * Before the UNet, the encoder part of the autoencoder-decoder model converts the input image into its latent representation. 
    + Noise predictor
        * The UNet model acts on the latent space information as the noise predictor
        * Each residual block is composed of two sub-blocks, and each of these sub-blocks is composed of a Batch Normalization, ReLU, and 3x3 Convolution in sequence
            - (Batch Normalization -> ReLU -> Convolution)*2
        * UNet acts exclusively on the latent space and does not deal with the original image pixels at all. The process of adding the caption information to the latent space is called text conditioning. Not just text conditioning, the latent information also geos through a noise addition step
            - Embedding vector + Noise -> Text conditioned noise vector -> UNet noise predictor -> Predicted noise
        * The UNet tries to predict the noise added to the image.
        * The image information creator works completely in the image information space (gold latent space).
        * It works in pixel space.
        * The word “diffusion” describes what happens in this component. It is the step by step processing of information that leads to a high-quality image being generated in the end (by the next component, the autoencoder-decoder)
        * The UNet architecture is more complex than this. It contains Residual layers for skip connections and Attention layers for merging the text information into the image's latent space
            - UNnet working on latent space : Noisy image -> Residual Block -> Embedding -> Transformer Attention -> Predicted noise
    + Autoencoder-decoder. The encoder generates the latent space information from the original image pixels and the decoder predicts the image from the text-conditioned latent space
        * The decoder part of the model is responsible for generating the final image
        * ex) 64x64 -> 512x512

1. Training
    1) Create the token embeddings from the prompt. From a training perspective, we will call the text prompt the caption.
    2) Condition the UNet with the embeddings. The latent space is generated using the encoder part of the autoencoder model. This is called text conditioned latent space.
    3) The UNet entirely works on the latent space. The UNet predicts the noise added to the latent space and tries to denoise it.
2. Inference
    - Once we have a trained Stable Diffusion mode, generating images goes through a slightly different process than training. During inference, we don't have an image with us initially. Instead, we have to generate one using a text prompt. Also, we do not need the encoder part of the autoencoder-decoder network. This boils down the inference components to the following : 
        + The pretrained text encoder
        + The UNet noise predictor
        + The decoder part of the autoencoder-decoder network
3. Custom Model
    - The official models released by Stability AI and their partners are called base models. Some examples of base models are Stable Diffusion 1.4, 1.5, 2.0, and 2.1.
    - Custom models are trained from the base models. Currently, most of the models are trained from v1.4 or v1.5. They are trained with additional data for generating images of particular styles or objects.
    - An advantage of using Stable Diffusion is that you have total control of the model. You can create your own model with a unique style if you want.
    - Two main ways to train models: (1) Dreambooth and (2) embedding.
        + Dreambooth is considered more powerful because it fine-tunes the weight of the whole model.
        + Embeddings leave the model untouched but find keywords to describe the new subject or style.
4. Online generator : <https://stablediffusionweb.com/#demo>
5. Advanced GUI
    - Advanced prompting techniques <https://stable-diffusion-art.com/prompt-guide/>
    - Regenerate a small part of an image with Inpainting. <https://stable-diffusion-art.com/how-to-remove-a-person-with-ai-inpainting/>
    - Generate images based on an input image (Image-to-image) <https://stable-diffusion-art.com/how-to-use-img2img-to-turn-an-amateur-drawing-to-professional-with-stable-diffusion-image-to-image/>
    - Edit an image by giving an instruction <https://stable-diffusion-art.com/instruct-pix2pix/>

## Diffusion
- Text Encoder(CLIPText) -> Random image information tensor -> Diffusion : Image Information Creator(UNet + Scheduler) - UNet Step 1, 2, ... 50 -> Processed image information tensot -> Image Decoder(Autoencoder decoder)

- The process that takes place inside the pink "Image information creator" (The UNet Noise Predictor) component
- Having the token embeddings that represent the input text, and a random starting image information array (these are also called latents), the process produces an information array that the image decoder uses to paint the final image
- This process happens in a step-by-step fashion. Each step adds more relevant information. To get an intuition of the process, we can inspect the random latent array, and see that it translates to visual noise. Visual inspection in this case is passing it through the image decoder
- Diffusion happens in multiple steps, each step operates on an input latent array, and produces another latents array that better resembles the input text and all the visual information the model picked up from all images the model was trained on
- We can visualize a set of these latents to see what information gets added at each step

- How 

## Prompts
1. Be detailed and specific
2. Use powerful keywords
ex) Subject, Medium, Style, Artist, Website, Resolution, Additional details, Color

- Tips for good prompts
    + Be detailed and specific when describing the subject.
    + Use multiple brackets () to increase its strength and [] to reduce.
    + Use an appropriate medium type consistent with the artist. Eg photography should not be used with van Gogh.
    + Artist name is a very strong style modifier. Use wisely.
    + Experiment with blending styles.
    + Head to the prompt section to study the high-quality prompts. If you like a particular image, use the prompt as a starting point.
- Negative prompts
    + Not all Stable Diffusion services support negative prompts
    + Negative prompt is an additional way to nudge stable siffusion to give you what you want

## LoRA models
- LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation) is a training technique for fine-tuning Stable Diffusion models. LoRA models are small Stable Diffusion models that apply tiny changes to standard checkpoint models. They are usually 10 to 100 times smaller than checkpoint models. That makes them very attractive to people having an extensive collection of models
- LoRA applies small changes to the most critical part of Stable Diffusion models: The cross-attention layers. It is the part of the model where the image and the prompt meet. Researchers found it sufficient to fine-tune this part of the model to achieve good training. The cross-attention layers are the yellow parts in the Stable Diffusion model architecture below
- To install LoRA models in AUTOMATIC1111 webui, put the model files in the following folder.
    + stable-diffusion-webui/models/Lora
- To use a LoRA model, put the following phrase in the prompt.
    + <lora:filename:multiply>
    + filename is the file name of the LoRA model, excluding the extension (.pt, .bin, etc).
    + multiplier is the weight applied to the LoRA model. The default is 1. Setting it to 0 disables the model

## ControlNet
- A neural network model for controlling Stable Diffusion models. You
can use ControlNet along with any Stable Diffusion models. With ControlNet, Stable Diffusion users finally have a way to control where the subjects are and how they look with precision.
- The most basic form of using Stable Diffusion models is text-to-image. It uses text prompts as the conditioning to steer image generation so that you generate images that match the text prompt.
- ControlNet adds one more conditioning in addition to the text prompt. The extra conditioning can take many forms in ControlNet
1. Edge detection
    + Input image -> Annotation + Input prompt -> Stable Diffusion Control Net -> Generate Image
    + Using the Canny edge detector, ControlNet takes an additional input image and detects its outlines
    + An image containing the detected edges is then saved as a control map
    + It is fed into the ControlNet model as an extra conditioning to the text prompt
2. Human pose detection
    + Input image -> Annotation + Input prompt -> Stable Diffusion Control Net -> Generate Image
    + Openpose is a fast human keypoint detection model that can extract human poses like positions of hands, legs, and head

## Automatic1111
- Text-to-image tab
    + Stable Diffusion Checkpoint : Put model files into stable-diffusion-webui/models/Stable-diffusion
    + Prompt
    + Width and height
    + Batch size
- Image generation parameters
    + Negative Prompt Text Box
    + Sampling method : Denoising process
    + Sampling steps : The more the better, but it also takes longer. 25 steps work for most cases.
    + Batch count : You will only change the batch count if you run into memory issues
    + Batch size : You would usually change the batch size because it is faster
        * The total number of images generated equals the batch count times the batch size
    + CFG scale : Classifier Free Guidance sacle is a parameter to control how much the model should respect your prompt
        * 1 : Mostly ignore your prompt
        * 3 : Be more creative
        * 7 : A good balance between following the prompt and freedom
        * 15 : Adhere more to the prompt
        * 30 : Strictly follow the prompt
    + Seed
        * The seed value used to generate the initial random tensor in the latent space. Practically, it controls the content of the picture. Each image generated has its own seed value. AUTOMATIC1111 will use a random seed value if it is set to -1. A common reason to fix the seed is to fix the content of an image and tweak the prompt.
        * Copy this value to the seed value input box, or use the recycle button to copy the seed value. Add the term to the prompt that you want to additionally describe in the picture
    + Extra seed options : Blend of two images
    + Resize seed from width/height
    + Restore faces : Restoring defects on faces using Face restoration

## Stable Diffusion 모델 튜닝
- 학습된 데이터를 언제 끼워넣는지에 따라 다름
- 성능 : DreamBooth > LoRa, Embedding > HyperNetworks

- DreamBooth
    + Text embedding + Picture with Noise -> Diffusion Model -> Output -> Compare with Actual picture -> Loss -> Gradient Update to diffusion Model
    + Fine-tunes the diffusion model itself until it understands the new concept
    + Probably the most effective
    + Storage inefficient (Whole new model to deal with)
- LoRa
    + Adds a tiny number of weights to the diffusion model and trains these until the modified model understands the concept
    + Gradient Update with Additionwl Weights to diffusion Model
    + Quick to train
    + 짧은 시간, 낮은 사양, 가벼운 모델
        * 6~10GB VRAM 있는 GPU
    + 학습 데이터
        * 피사체 단독, 여러 포즈, 여러 배경, 난잡하거나 특이한 그림 제외
        * Instance Images : 학습 데이터
        * Concept Images (Regularization) : 같은 클래스이지만 학습시키지 않는 데이터
    + 학습 방법
        * DreamBooth Method : 학습 데이터와 정칙화 이미지 사용
            - 정칙화 이미지 : 프롬프트에 포함된 단어의 개념이 바뀌지 않게 하기 위한 학습용 이미지
        * Fine tuning : 학습 데이터와 캡션 파일 사용
    + 프롬프트
        * 인스턴스 프롬프트 : 이미지에 반영
        * 클래스 프롬프트 : 학습 대상
            ex) 검정(인스턴스) 고양이(클래스)
    + 학습 툴
        * Webui Extension
        * Kohya
- HyperNetworks
    + Use a secondary network to predict new weights for the original network. The new weights are swapped in at inference.
    + Gradient Update -> HyperNetwork -> Diffusion Model
- (Textual Inversion) Embeddings
    + Creates a special word embedding which captures the new concept
    + Output is a tiny embedding
    + Gradient Update -> Text embedding

## URL
- [**Stable-diffusion-webui**](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui)
- [**Download Checkpoints(Model)**]
    + <https://huggingface.co/>
    + <https://civitai.com/>
- [Generate Your Images Faster by Installing Stable Diffusion With Google Colab!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uFNz4y8Ebz4&t=629s)
    + <https://colab.research.google.com/github/TheLastBen/fast-stable-diffusion/blob/main/fast_stable_diffusion_AUTOMATIC1111.ipynb>
- [Adding Models to Stable Diffusion: Colab & Locally](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vpdM9RqkSaM)
- [Intro to LoRA Models: What, Where, and How with Stable Diffusion](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZHVdNeHZPdc)
- [Mastering ControlNet Scribble in Stable Diffusion: Transform Your Sketches into Stunning Images](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6wxGrqIX5Y)
- [Training (Fine-Tuning) Your Own Stable Diffusion Model Using Colab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c6r25rT8DV0&t=1356s)
    + <https://colab.research.google.com/github/TheLastBen/fast-stable-diffusion/blob/main/fast-DreamBooth.ipynb>
    + <https://www.birme.net/>
- [Training LoRA with Kohya (theory included!)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xholR62Q2tY)

References: 
- [Create Art From Your Face With AI For Free | Dreambooth Tutorial | Stable Diffusion Guide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FaLTztGGueQ)
- [Create Art From Your Face With AI For Free Part 2 | No Google Colab | No Code | Automatic1111 Guide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P1dfwViVOIU&t=285s)
- [Create Art From Your Face For Free Part 3 | Dreambooth Tutorial | Automatic1111 | Stable Diffusion]
(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MT8HhBSMaWM)
- [Transform Your Photos into Cinematic Sci-Fi Images with Stable Diffusion and Dreambooth!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ax8VWUFEzXw)